# External Configuration

Spring Boot adds build-in support to externalize your configuration so that you can work with the same application code in different environments. 

You can use properties files, YAML files, environment variables, and command-line arguments to externalize configuration. 

In order of precedence from highest to lowest, the specific list is as follows.

- Command Line arguments.
- The Java system parameters obtained through System.getproperties().
- Operating system environment variables.
- The JNDI attribute obtained from java:comp/env.
- The "random.*" property generated by Randomvaluepropertysource.
- Apply the properties file outside of the Jar file . (via spring.config.location parameter)
- Apply the properties file inside the Jar file.
- A property file that is declared through the "@PropertySource" annotation in the application Configuration Java class (the Java class that contains the "@Configuration" annotations).
- The default property declared by the "Springapplication.setdefaultproperties".

Please refer to the official [Spring Boot Externalized Configuration documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/spring-boot-features.html#boot-features-external-config) for the full documentation.

## Property values

Property values can be injected directly into your beans by using the @Value annotation, accessed through Spring’s Environment abstraction, or be bound to structured objects through @ConfigurationProperties. 

Several examples could be found across this seed project, for example:

```java
@Configuration
@ConfigurationProperties(prefix = "security.jwt")
@Getter
@Setter
public class JwtConfig implements Serializable {

    private String clientSecret;
    private int tokenValidityInSeconds;
}
```

In the example the bind will be with properties *security.jwt.client-secret* and *security.jwt.token-validity-in-seconds*
